---
title: 'Going from R to Rust: Notes on Hangups'
date: 2020-11-3
permalink: /posts/2020/1103/Rust-From-R/
tags:
  - rust
  - bio
  - beginner
  - getting started
---

Going from R (or python probably) to Rust is seeming to be a very difficult task. Documented here are a few of the main hangups I keep hitting because they aren't present in R (or python really).

Result and Option

Rust uses a kind of 'wrapper' around the objects that I'm used to passing around as I write code. In R, I just use function(thing) and my function does it's work on the thing. You 'wrap' things in rust so your thing knows how to operate as you work on it through the code. For example, result and option will usually give you information on if something passed or gave an error, say on reading a file. You can usually just say variable.unwrap() and it'll give back what you're expecting in another simpler language. Result and option are different versions of the same thing, which I didn't know until I referred to the chapter in the book after crying for mercy.

Read the Rust book. The whole thing. I didn't, but after a month I'm still finding that if I'm stuck getting blocked by the compiler it was probably in a page of the book I didn't read or skimmed over. Don't think you need this or that? I already know functions and for loops, lets get on with it? You thought!

Self

Even though it's self explanatory (hehehe) using self in practice when you're not used to it is just not second nature. This is one that I'm still stuck on.

Closures

Closures are the same as lambdas in python and kind of like the L,S,apply functions in R. It's amazing and works with iterators and chaining. Iterators, chaining and closures all come together to make things like tidyverse's pipes, and more often than not this is the way to go rather than a for loop.


Currently, I'm stuck on Box dyn and traits. They're what you want to do when a function has a possibility to return more than one type of thing, and they're pretty meta. I'll hopefully give updates when I understand them.
